.NET Agent Release Notes for v10.53.0 (#24825)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/net-release-notes/net-agent-10-53-0.mdx

---
subject: .NET agent
releaseDate: '2026-07-14'
version: 10.53.0
downloadLink: 'https://download.newrelic.com/dot_net_agent/latest_release'
features: ['Report request queue time from X-Request-Start/X-Queue-Start headers across all web hosts.','Support server-side configuration for AI Monitoring settings.']
bugs: ['Update Npgsql instrumentation to support v8.x and newer.']
security: []
---

### New features

* Report request queue time from X-Request-Start/X-Queue-Start headers across all web hosts ([#3659](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-dotnet-agent/issues/3659)) ([05a1d00](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-dotnet-agent/commit/05a1d00ced2f479240c49231e6b5fb410086ab08))

> * Support server-side configuration for AI Monitoring settings ([#3664](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-dotnet-agent/issues/3664)) ([eacc013](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-dotnet-agent/commit/eacc013e649697084c953ab38492d47f8b3867dc))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added support for reporting request queue times using `X-Request-Start` and `X-Queue-Start` headers across all web hosts.([#3659](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-dotnet-agent/issues/3659))
* Added support for server-side configuration of AI Monitoring settings. ([#3664](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-dotnet-agent/issues/3664))
```

### Fixes

> * Update Npgsql instrumentation to support v8.x and newer ([#3667](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-dotnet-agent/issues/3667)) ([2890d96](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-dotnet-agent/commit/2890d96ac42457ba13588273210ad448a736de0f))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updated Npgsql instrumentation to support version 8.x and newer. ([#3667](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-dotnet-agent/issues/3667))
```
